# Linear Congruential Generator (LCG) in Python

For quantitative applications such as numerical simulations, it is convenient to have full control over the Pseudo-Random Number Generator you choose to use. For this, I made a simple implementation of the Congruential Linear Generator, a simple and reliable algorithm.


## Brief Theoretical Background
Linear Congruential Generator is an algorithm to produce real non-negative pseudo-random numbers from the uniform distribution on (0, 1).

First, an LCG produces a sequence of non-negative integers called *states* according to the recurring relation

  x_i = (a * x_{i-1} + c) mod m		  with i = {0, 1, ...}

Where
* m > 0 is the modulus; mod m stands for "modulo m", which means you divide by m and take the remainder.
* x_i = {0, 1, ..., m - 1} is the i-th state of the generator 
* x_0 = {0, 1, ..., m - 1} is a non-negative integer constant called seed. The seed is the initial state of the generator
* a = {0, 1, ..., m - 1} is a non-negative integer constant called multiplier
* c = {0, 1, ..., m - 1} is a non-negative integer constant called increment

The integer constants m, a, c and x_0 specify the generator.

For each state generated by the LCG, we can take

  u_i = x_n / m

Obtaining a real pseudo-random number from the uniform distribution on (0, 1), u_i.



## About this Repo
This small project explores a simple implmentation of the LCG as a Python generator. All the code is contained in the lcg.py file and it's pretty straightforward.

A detailed list of good values for LCG constants m and a can be found at:

*L’ecuyer, Pierre. "Tables of linear congruential generators of different sizes and good lattice structure." Mathematics of Computation 68.225 (1999): 249-260.*

That is also where I got the default values for my generator.
